# 国家的崛起

## 文明

- Americans
  - The Americans have the Power of Innovation.
    - First Wonder is built instantly (except Space Program or Supercollider) if no other nation is also building it.
    - Governments are free. Receive 1 free Scholar(s) at each new University.
    - Aircraft and Carriers are 20% cheaper. Receive 1 free Bombers at each Airbase from Modern Age.
    - 25% cheaper military ground unit upgrades. Receive +3 Food, Timber, Metal, and Wealth for every non-Scout Barracks unit (except when garrisoned).
  - 
- Aztecs
- Bantu
- British
- Chinese
- Dutch
- Egyptians
- French
- Germans
- Greeks
- Inca
- Indians
- Iroquois
- Japanese
- Koreans
- Lakota
- Maya
- Mongols
- Nubians
- Persians
- Romans
- Russians
- Spanish
- Turks

## 资源

- Fish
- Relics
- Wine
- Papyrus
- Dye
- Silk
- Spice
- Salt
- Horses
  - +10 粮食，+ 10 铁
  - Cost of Stable and Auto Plant units reduced by 15%
- Rubber
  - +20 木，+20 石油
  - Cost of Auto Plant units reduced by 15%
- Sulphur
  - +18 金，+18 铁
  - Cost of Siege/Artillery units reduced by 20%
- Amber
  - +10 木，+10 金
  - Market sell prices +10 and buy prices -10.
- Silver
- Tobacco
- Marble
  - +10 木，+10 铁
  - Cost to build Wonders reduced by 10%
- Furs
  - +10 食物，+10 铁
  - Cost of Military research reduced by 25%
- Cotton
  - +40 木
  - Barracks, Stable, and Dock production times reduced by 25%
- Bison
- Copper
  - +40 铁
  - Factory and Dock units receive +20% hit points
- Peacocks
  - +20 金 +20 铁
  - +10% population limit
- Citrus
  - +12 食物，+12 木
  - Ships at sea heal automatically
- Sugar
- Diamonds
  - +20 金
  - Raises commerce limit by +10%
- Gems
- Aluminum
- Whales
- Obsidian
  - +12 知识，+12 铁
  - Archers, Towers, Forts, and Cities gain +1 attack.
- Wool
- Coal
- Uranium
- Titanium
- Goody Box

## 游戏统计

- Game
  - Winner
  - Most Valuable Player
  - Defeat Type: Resignation
  - High Score: 20774 - ZeromaX
  - Map Type: Atlantic Sea Power
  - Game Time: 03:40:48
- Score
  - Total
  - Army
  - Combat
  - Territory
  - City
  - Economy
  - Research
  - Wonders
- Military
  - Largest Army
  - Units Built
  - Units Killed
  - Units Lost
  - Buildings Built
  - Buildings Razed
  - Buildings Lost
  - Cities Built
  - Cities Captured
  - Cities Lost
- Economy
  - Food collected
  - Timber collected
  - Wealth collected
  - Knowledge collected
  - Metal collected
  - Oil collected
  - Rare resources
  - Ruins Bonuses
  - Resources Sent
  - Resources Received
- Research
  - Classical Age
  - Medieval Age
  - Gunpowder Age
  - Enlightment Age
  - Industrial Age
  - Modern Age
  - Information Age
  - Library Research
  - Misc. Research
  - Unit Upgrades
- Glory
  - Most Citizens
  - Most Caravans
  - Most Scholars
  - Most Cities
  - Most Territory
  - Most Wonders Held
  - Forts Built
  - Units Bribed
  - Survival to Finish
- Speed
  - Player Speed
  - Hotkeys Pressed
  - Mouse Clicks
  - Clicks in Minimap
  - Clicks in Map
  - Clicks in Interface
  - Time Zoomed In
  - Time Zoomed Out
  - Control Groups Formed
  - Control Groups Activated
- Score Graph
- Military Graph
- Territory Graph
- Resource Graph
- Technology Graph
- Timeline

## 游戏操作

- Next Military
- Next General
- Objectives
- Idle Citizen

## 远古~古典

### 图书馆 Library

- 远古 Ancient Age

  - 军事 Military：

    - The Art of War

    - Mercenaries

  - Civic
    - City State
    - Empire
    - 

  - Commerce
    - Barter
    - Coinage

  - Science
    - Written Word
    - Mathematics

- 古典 Classical Age

  - Military
    - Generalship
    - Military Recruitment
    - Grand Strategy
    - Military Depots
    - Incendiaries
  - Civic
    - Senate
    - Magistrates
    - Jurisprudence
    - Legislation
    - Morality
  - Commerce
    - Exploration
    - Writing Implements
    - Beam Bridges
    - Abacus
    - Paper and Parchment
  - Science
    - Water Energy
    - Temperature
    - Wind Energy
    - Astrology
    - Physical Healing

### 寺庙 Temple

- 加成1
  - Religion
  - Monotheism
    - 消耗 150 食物，150 金
    - Temples increase city effect on National Borders by +6
    - Temples increase city hit points by 100%
    - Temples increase city combat range by +3.
  - Existentialism
    - 消耗 360 食物，360 金
    - Temples increase city effect on National Borders by +9
    - Temples increase city hit points by 150%
    - Temples increase city combat range by +4

- 加成2
  - Texation
  - Vassalage
  - Social Contract
    - 消耗 352 食物，352 木
    - Increases taxation based on percentage of world territory controlled. Taxation rate rises to 200% (Level 3)
    - Increases gather rate of Merchants in friendly territory (and all Fishermen's non-food resources) to 200% (Level 3).
  - Income Tax
    - 消耗 576 食物，576 木
    - Increases taxation based on percentage of world territory controlled. Taxation rate rises to 300% (Level 4)
    - Increases gather rate of Merchants in friendly territory (and all Fishermen's non-food resources) to 300% (Level 4).

### 农场 Farm

### 谷仓 Granary

- 加成1
  - Agriculture
    - 消耗 135 木，135 铁
    - Granaries increase food output by 50%
    - Fishermen collect +50% Food.
  - Crop Rotation
    - 消耗 200 木，200 铁
    - Granaries increase food output by 100%
    - Fishermen collect +100% Food
- 加成2
  - Herbal Lore
    - 消耗 64 食物，64 金
    - Foot and Mounted troops created faster (Level 1)
    - Foot and Mounted troops Line-of-Sight increased (Level 1).
    - Units heal faster while garrisoned in buildings (Level 1).
  - Medicine
    - 消耗 144 食物，144 金（需要 IV 火药时代 Gunpowder Age）
    - Foot and Mounted troops created faster (Level 2)
    - Foot and Mounted troops Line-of-Sight increased (Level 2).
    - Units heal faster while garrisoned in buildings (Level 2).

### 铁矿 Mine

### 炼铁厂 Smelter

- 加成1
  - Metal Alloys
    - 消耗 200 食物，200 木
    - Smelters increase metal output by 100%
  - Cold Casting
    - 消耗 315 食物，315 木
    - Smelters increase metal output by 150%
- 加成2
  - Forage
    - 消耗 56 金，56 铁
    - Ships created faster (Level 1)
    - Tanks, siege, and vehicle units created faster (Level 1).
    - Supply Wagons gain increased Radius/Speed/HP (Level 1).
    - Your units in enemy territory receive 25% less attrition damage (and none when not moving or fighting)

### 伐木营地 Woodcutter's Camp

### 伐木场 Lumber Mill

- 加成1
  - Carpentry
  - Logging Industry
    - 消耗 250 食物，250 铁
    - Lumber Mills increase timber output by 100%
  - Papermill
    - 消耗 540 食物，540 铁
    - Lumber Mills increase timber output by 200%
- 加成2
  - Construction
  - Architecture
    - 消耗 135 木，135 金（需要 IV 火药时代）
    - Buildings constructed faster (Level 2).
    - Building hit points increased by 20% (Level 2).

### 大学 University

- Scholar（单位）
  - The more Scholars you have in you Universities, the faster you will generate Knowledge
- 加成1
  - Literacy
  - Printing Press
    - Scholars produce +10 knowledge each.
  - Scientific Method
    - 消耗 600 木
    - Scholars produce +15 knowledge each.

### 参议院 Senate

- 说明
  - If built at any other city besides your capital, changes that city to your new capital.
  - Senates allow you to research systems of government.
  - Select between totalitarian and democratic govermental systems to gain different benefits.
- Despotism
- Republic

### 箭塔 Tower

- 说明
  - Small cheap fortification.
  - Automatically attacks enemies
  - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
  - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal.
- 加成1
  - Militia
    - 消耗 57 食物，57 铁
    - Citizens who have taken up weapons.
    - Once the Militia unit is researched, Citizens gain a "To Arms!" button, which allows them to become fighting Militia units.
    - Militia research also increases the hit points and Line-of-Sight of ordinary Citizens.
    - Militia research also increases Tower range and Line-of-Sight.
    - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Light Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Heavy Infantry
- 加成2
  - Allegiance
  - Oath of Fealty
    - 消耗 135 金，135 铁
    - Increased attribution damage to enemies in your territory (Level 2).

### 堡垒 Fort

- 说明
  - Protects an area by attacking enemy units.
  - Influences National Bordedrs.
  - Creates Spies and Generals.
  - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
  - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal.
- 单位1
  - General
    - 消耗 80 金，80 铁
    - Increases the armor of all your troops nearby by +2 (increases further per level General is upgraded).
    - Can Force March their armies to increase their move speeds.
    - Can Entrench foot troops to increase their defense.
    - Can hide units to prepare an Ambush or sneak attack.
    - Can Create Decoy units that look and behave like real units to your enemies, but cause no damage when they attack.
- 加成1
  - Fortification
    - 消耗 108 金，108 铁
    - Increases effect of Forts on National Borders to +4.
    - +1 Range for Forts.
    - +5 Garrison Capacity for Forts and Towers.
    - +2 Line-of-Sight for Forts.
- 加成2
  - Tactics
    - 消耗 45 食物，45 金
    - Generals and Spies are created twice as quickly
    - Generals have increased Radius/HP/Speed/LOS and increased effect on unit armor (Level 1).
    - Spies have increased Range/HP/Speed/LOS (Level 1).



### 兵营 Barracks

- 单位1
  - Slingers
  - Javelineers
    - 消耗 38 粮食，38 木
    - Light Infantry, Classical Age - fast, cheap, and short-ranged.
    - Strong vs. Foot Archers; Weak vs. Cavalry
- 单位2
  - Hoplites
  - Phalanx
    - 消耗 48 粮食，28 铁
    - Heavy Infantry, Classical Age - powerful, slow, melee units
    - Strong vs. Cavalry; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
- 单位3
  - Bowman
  - Archers
    - Cost 38 木，48 金
    - Foot Archers, Classical Age - medium-ranged foot infantry with little armor.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Light Infantry
- 单位5
  - Scout
    - 消耗 40 金、40 铁
    - Scouts, Ancient Age - fast, but unarmed; good for exploring the map and finding enemies.
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - Can also destroy enemy Spies.
    - Strong vs. Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry

### 码头 Dock

- 单位1
  - Trireme
    - 消耗 40 木，40 铁
    - Heavy Ships, Ancient Age - slow but powerful; useful for massing naval power.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Bombardment Ships; Weak vs. Fireships, Submarines
  - Galley
    - 消耗 80 木，80 铁
    - Heavy Ships, Classical Age - slow but powerful; useful for massing naval power.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Bombardment Ships; Weak vs. Fireships, Submarines
- 单位2
  - Bark
    - 消耗 58 食，30 木
    - Light Ships, Ancient Age - fast and lightly armed; useful for scouting and intercepting enemy Transports.
    - Strong vs. Fireships, Transports; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
  - Dromon
    - 消耗 60 食物，60 木
    - Light Ships, Ancient Age - fast and lightly armed; useful for scouting and intercepting enemy Transports.
    - Strong vs. Fireships, Transports; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
- 单位4
  - Fire Raft
    - 消耗 19 木，86 金
    - Fire Ships, Classical Age - explode on contact with an enemy warship, with devastating results
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships; Weak vs. Light Ships
- 单位5
  - Fisherman
    - 消耗 55 木
    - Can gather resources from Fish and Whale sites.
    - To fish, move near a Fish/Whale resource site in the sea.

- Market
  - Merchant
    - Merchants allow you to claim and gain the benefit from rare resources such as Wine, Diamonds, and Horses.
    - Deploy a merchant next to a rare resource to claim it.
  - Caravan
    - 消耗 20 粮食 35 木
    - Generate Wealth by making trade routes between pairs of your cities.
    - Only one Caravan can ply the route between a particular pair of cities.
    - You can create one additional Caravan for each Commerce research.
    - You specify one of the cities on a Caravan's route by selecting the Caravan and right clicking on the City. The Caravan will pick the most favorable second City.
    - You can specify both of the cities on a Caravan's route by right dragging between the two cities on either the main map or the minimap.

### 马厩 Stable

- Light Horse
  - 消耗 57 食物，38 木
  - Light Cavalry, Classical Age - extremely fast and lightly armed melee troops; useful for catching enemy raiders.
  - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Light Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry, Buildings
- Cataphract
  - 消耗 50 金，60 铁
  - Heavy Cavalry, Classical Age - powerful, armored, shock melee units useful against formations of ranged foot troops.
  - Strong vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
- Horse Archer
  - 消耗 60 木，40 金
  - Ranged Cavalry, Classical Age - fast raiders able to fire even while moving.
  - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Civilians; Weak vs. Light Cavalry, Archers

### 攻城工厂 Siege Factory

- Catapult
  - 消耗 67 木，67 铁
  - Artillery Weapons, Classical Age - expensive and slow-moving, but effective at long range against enemy buildings.
  - Strong vs. Buildings; Weak vs. Cavalry

### 奇观

- Pyramids
  - 消耗 260 食物，260 木
  - Wonder of the World: 1 wonder point(s).
  - Increases your Commerce Limit for Food and Wealth by 50.
  - Increases your City Limit by 1. Cities are 33% cheaper.
  - Increases your Food gather rate by 20%.
- Colossus
  - 消耗 200 木，200 金
  - Wonder of the World: 1 wonder point(s).
  - Increases your Wealth rate by 30%
  - Increases your Population Limit by 50
  - Increases your Commerce Limit for Wealth and Timber by 50.
- Hanging Gardens
  - 消耗 260 食物，260 金
  - Wonder of the World: 1 wonder point(s).
  - Increases your Knowledge production by 50.
  - Granary, Lumber Mill, and Smelter production upgrades are discounted by 66%
- Terra Cotta Army
  - 消耗 300 食物，300 金
  - 需要 III 中世纪 Medieval Age
  - Wonder of the World: 2 wonder point(s).
  - Creates a free foot unit every 30 seconds (plus 1/2 second(s) for every infantry unit you control)
- Colosseum
  - 需要 III 中世纪 Medieval Age
  - 消耗 300 木，300 铁
  - Wonder of the World: 2 wonder point(s).
  - Increases your National Borders by 3.
  - Attribution to enemy units in your territory increased by 50%.
  - Forts and Towers are 20% cheaper.
- Forbidden City
  - 需要 III 中世纪 Medieval Age
  - 消耗 300 食物，300 木
  - Wonder of the World: 2 wonder point(s).
  - Counts as a bonus Major City in your nation. Can be built wherever a City can and its build location is not revealed to the enemy until it is completed.
  - Gives +50 Food and Timber instead of the usual +10/+10.
  - Capital timers do not affect you.
- Temple of Tikal
  - 需要 IV 火药时代 Gunpowder Age
  - 消耗 Cost 400 食物，400 木
  - Wonder of the World: 2 wonder point(s).
  - Increases your Timber gather rate by 50%
  - Raises your Commerce Cap for Timber by 100.
  - Increases Temple effects (on National Borders, Hit Points, and Attack Range) by 50%
- Porcelain Tower
  - 需要 IV 火药时代
  - 消耗 Cost 400 金，400 铁
  - Wonder of the World: 2 wonder point(s).
  - You create ships 50% faster.
  - Increases your income from rare resources (in your territory) and Markets by 200%
  - You receive the bonus ability of all rare resources in your territory, even if you don't have a Merchant there.
- Red Fort
  - 需要 IV 火药时代
  - 消耗 Cost 400 金，400 铁
  - Wonder of the World: 2 wonder point(s).
  - Massive Fort with long range, many hit points, extra garrison value, increased border push, and resistance to air attack.
  - Can be built wherever a Fort can; does not count against a city's Wonder limit. Its build location is not revealed to the enemy until it is completed.
  - Receive Fort upgrades for free and all Forts gain 33% more hit points.
  - Units garrisoned in any Fort heal at +500% the normal rate.
- Angkor Wat
  - 需要 V 启蒙时代 Enlightenment Age
  - Cost 500 木 500 金
  - Wonder of the World: 3 wonder point(s).
  - Increases your Metal gather rate by 50%.
  - Raises your Commerce Limit for Metal by 100.
  - Cost of Barracks, Stable, and Dock units reduced by 25%.
- Versailles
  - 需要 V Enlightment Age
  - Cost 500 粮食 500 铁
  - Wonder of the World: 3 wonder point(s).
  - Reduces the non-Knowledge costs of Library research by 50%
  - Your Supply Wagons can heal your troops (and French Supply Wagons heal at double normal rate).
  - Siege, Artillery, and Supply units move 25% faster.
- Statue of Liberty
  - 需要 VI 工业时代 Industrial Age
  - Cost 600 食物 600 金
  - Wonder of the World: 4 wonder point(s).
  - You receive all ground unit and Airbase upgrades for free.
  - Reduces attribution damage inflicted on your units in enemy territory by 100%
  - Reduces the cost of Bombers and air defense buildings by 33%
- Taj Mahal
  - 需要 VI 工业时代
  - Cost 600 木 600 金
  - Wonder of the World: 4 wonder point(s).
  - Increases all your building hit points by 100%.
  - Your Wealth income increased by 100%
  - Raises your Commerce Limit for Wealth by 300
- Kremlin
  - 需要 VII 现代 Modern Age
  - Cost 700 食物 700 铁
  - Wonder of the World: 6 wonder point(s).
  - Raises your Commerce Limit for Food, Timber, Metal, and Oil by 200.
  - Increases the attribution damage inflicted on unsupplied enemy units in your territory by 100%.
  - Spies are created instantly. Gain the use of an extra Spy unit which does not count against your Population Limit and is rebuilt for free whenever it is killed.
- Effel Tower
  - 需要 VII 现代 Modern Age
  - Cost 700 木 700 铁
  - Wonder of the World: 6 wonder point(s).
  - Increases your Oil income by 100%.
  - Raises your Commerce Limit for Oil by 200.
  - Increases your National Borders by 6.
- Supercollider
  - 需要 VIII 信息时代 Information Age
  - Cost 800 食物 800 知识
  - Wonder of the World: 8 wonder point(s).
  - The cost to buy goods at the market is never higher than 125 Wealth; the price to sell is never lower than 50 Wealth.
  - Technologies can be researched instantaneously (but not unit technologies).
- Space Program
  - 需要 VIII 信息时代
  - Cost 800 金 800 知识
  - Wonder of the World: 8 wonder point(s).
  - You can see the location of all units, buildings, and terrain on the map.
  - You create aircraft and missiles 100% faster and 50% cheaper.
  - You are immune to the effects of a Nuclear Embargo.

## 古典 ~ 中古

### 图书馆 Library

- 古典 Classical Age
  - 军事 Military
    - Officer Corps
      - 消耗 120 食物
    - Mercenaries
      - 消耗 110 食物，110 铁
    - Standing Army
      - 消耗 192 知识，240 铁
  - Civic
    - Government
      - 消耗 120 食物
    - Empire
      - 消耗 176 食物
    - Feudalism
      - 消耗 192 食物，192 知识
  - Commerce
    - Roads
      - Cost 60 食物，60 木
    - Coinage
      - 消耗 66 木，154 知识
    - Trade
      - 消耗 120 木，312 知识
  - Science
    - Education
      - 消耗 120 木，50 金
    - Mathematics
      - 消耗 132 金，88 知识
    - Chemistry
      - 消耗 240 金，192 知识
- 中古 Medieval Age
  - 军事 Military
    - Chivalry and Heraldry
      - 消耗 468 知识，325 铁
    - Plate Armor
      - 消耗 910 知识，560 铁
    - Laws of War
      - 消耗 1950 知识，750 铁
    - Military Indenture
      - 消耗 2880 知识，1920 铁
  - Civic
    - Civil Service
      - 消耗 390 食物，390 知识
    - Statesmanship
      - 消耗 700 食物，700 知识
    - Jurisdiction
      - 消耗 1200 食物，1500 知识
    - Despotism
      - 消耗 2400 食物，2400 知识
  - Commerce
    - Paper Currency
      - 消耗 195 木，650 知识
    - Distance Measurement
      - 消耗 350 木，1260 知识
    - Linguistics
      - 消耗 750 木，1950 知识
    - Tribute
      - 消耗 1920 木，2880 知识
  - Science
    - Horticulture
      - 消耗 360 金，360 知识
    - Astronomy
      - 消耗 650 金，650 知识
    - Machinery
      - 消耗 1260 金，1260 知识
    - Optics
      - 消耗 2250 金，2250 知识

### 寺庙 Temple

- 加成1
  - Religion
    - 消耗 70 食物，70 金
    - Temples increase city effect on National Borders by +4
    - Temples increase city hit points by 50%
    - Temples increase city combat range by +2.
  - Monotheism
    - 消耗 180 食物，180 金
- 加成2
  - Texation
    - 消耗 88 食物，88 木
    - Allows taxation based on percentage of world territory controlled. Taxation rate becomes 50% (Level 1).
    - Increases gather rate of Merchants in friendly territory (and all Fishermen's non-food resources) to 120% (Level 1).
  - Vassalage
    - 消耗 176 食物，176 木

### 大学 University

- Scholar（单位）
  - 消耗 32 金
  - The more Scholars you have in you Universities, the faster you will generate Knowledge
- 加成1
  - Literacy
    - 消耗 240 木
    - Scholars produce +7 knowledge each.
  - Printing Press
    - 消耗 440 木

### 兵营 Barracks

- 单位1
  - Javelineers
    - 消耗 40 粮食，40 木
  - Elite Javelineers
    - 研究消耗 60 粮食，60 木
- 单位2
  - Phalanx
    - 消耗 50 粮食，30 铁
  - Pikemen
    - 研究消耗 75 粮食，45 铁
- 单位3
  - Archers
    - 消耗 40 木，50 金
  - Crossbowmen
    - 研究消耗 60 木，75 金
- 单位5
  - Scout
    - 消耗 50 金，50 铁
  - Explorer
    - 研究 80 金，80 铁

### 攻城工厂 Siege Factory

- 单位1
  - Catapult
    - 消耗 67 木，67 铁
  - Trebuchet
    - 研究消耗 78 木，78 铁
- 单位5
  - Supply Wagon
    - 消耗 80 粮食，80 木
    - Prevent most attrition damage to your troops within their radius.
    - Allow your siege/artillery units to fire faster even in enemy territory.

### 码头 Dock

- 单位1
  - Galley
    - 消耗 39 木，39 铁
  - Carrack
    - 研究消耗 80 木，80 铁
- 单位2
  - Dromon
    - 消耗 29 粮食，29 木
  - Caravel
    - 研究消耗 60 粮食，60 木
- 单位4
  - Fire Raft
    - 消耗 19 木，39 金
  - Heavy Fire Raft
    - 研究消耗 40 木，80 金

- 单位5
  - Fishermen
    - 消耗 40 木

### 瞭望台 Lookout

- 说明
  - Defenseless but can see a long way.
  - Detects hidden enemy units nearby
  - Limited ability to shoot arrows at enemy aircraft passing nearby.

## 中古 ~ 火药

### 图书馆 Library

- Military
  - Feudal Levies
  - Men-at-Arms
  - Standing Army
  - Conscription
  - Regimental System
  - Morale and Cohesion
  - Secrecy
- Civic
  - Sovereignty
  - Treasury
  - Feudalism
  - Divine Right
  - Bureaucracy
  - Branches of Government
  - Revolution
- Commerce
  - Cartography
  - Stellar Navigation
  - Trade
  - Mercantilism
  - Surveying
  - Canals
  - Monetary Exchange
- Science
  - Deductive Reasoning
  - Timekeeping
  - Chemistry
  - Laws of Nature
  - Vernacular
  - Scientific Literature
  - Physics

## 火药 ~ 启蒙

### 图书馆 Library

- Military
  - Firepower
  - Gunsmiths
  - Ballistics
  - Conscription
  - Levee en Masse
  - Signal Corps
  - Total War
- Civic
  - Politics
  - Colonialism
  - Constabulary
  - Divine Right
  - Constitution
  - Voting Rights
  - Party Politics
- Commerce
  - Compass
  - Latitude
  - Geography
  - Mercantilism
  - Finance
  - Accounting
  - Protective Tariffs
- Science
  - Biology
  - Empiricism
  - Scientific Method
  - Laws of Nature
  - Electricity
  - Botany
  - Evolution

## 启蒙 ~ 工业

### 图书馆 Library

- Military
  - Military Academy
  - National Guard
  - Quartermaster Corps
  - Irregular Warfare
  - Levee en Masse
  - Nation-in-Arms
  - Blizkrieg
- Civic
  - Rights of Men
  - Federalism
  - Balance of Powers
  - Ball of Rights
  - Constitution
  - Great Power
  - Regionalism
- Commerce
  - Longitude
  - Central Banking
  - Railroads
  - Postal Service
  - Finance
  - Assembly Line
  - Photography and Film
- Science
  - Anatomy
  - Mechanical Energy
  - Calculus
  - Geology
  - Electricity
  - Electronics
  - Hydroelectricity

## 工业 ~ 现代

### 图书馆 Library

- Military
  - General Staff
  - Combined Arms Tactics
  - Deception
  - Trench Warfare
  - Infiltration Tactics
  - Nation-in-Arms
  - Selective Service
- Civic
  - Constitutional Monarchy
  - Pacts and Alliance
  - Rule of Law
  - Realpolitik
  - League of Nations
  - Great Power
  - International Law
- Commercce
  - Wealth Standard
  - Telegraph and Telephone
  - Stock Exchange
  - Anti-Trust Legislation
  - Radio
  - Assembly Line
  - Globalization
- Science
  - Thermodynamics
  - Electromagnetism
  - Pharmacology
  - Immunization
  - Aeronautics
  - Electronics
  - Computerization

### Senate

- 加成1
  - Despotism
    - Cost 49 食物，49 金
    - Military research and Barracks units 15% cheaper; receive The Despot Patriot (a General who also provides supply, Line-of-Sight, and plunder bonuses)
  - Monarchy
    - Cost 200 金, 160 知识
    - Stable units are 25% cheaper and faster to build; receive The King Patriot (a General who also provides supply, siege, and mounted combat benefits).
  - Socialism
    - Cost 750 金，500 知识
    - Factory, Airbase and Dock units 20% cheaper and faster to build; receive The Comrade Patriot (a General who also provides supply, combat and assimilation benefits).
- 加成3
  - Republic
    - Cost 49 食物，49 铁
    - Commerce Limit increase by 50; receive The Senator Patriot (a General who also provides healing, bribing, and building defense bonuses).
  - Democracy
    - Cost 160 食物，200 铁
    - Non-Library technologies 20% cheaper; receive the President Patriot (a General who also provides production, building, and healing benefits).
  - Capitalism
    - Cost 500 知识，750 铁
    - Receive +100 Oil income and 500 Oil; receive the CEO Patriot (a General who also provides defense, range, and healing benefits)

### Granary

- 加成1
  - Agriculture
    - 消耗 150 木，150 铁
    - Granaries increase food output by 50%
    - Fishermen collect +50% Food.
  - Crop Rotation
    - 消耗 275 木，275 铁
    - Granaries increase food output by 100%
    - Fishermen collect +100% Food.
  - Food Industry
    - 消耗 450 木，450 铁
    - Granaries increase food output by 200%
    - Fishermen collect +200% Food.
- 加成2
  - Herbal Lore
    - 消耗 72 粮食，72 金
    - Foot and Mounted troops created faster (Level 1)
    - Foot and Mounted troops Line-of-Sight increased (Level 1).
    - Units heal faster while garrisoned in buildings (Level 1).
  - Medicine
    - 消耗 198 粮食，198 金
    - Foot and Mounted troops created faster (Level 2)
    - Foot and Mounted troops Line-of-Sight increased (Level 2).
    - Units heal faster while garrisoned in buildings (Level 2).
  - Pharmaceuticals
    - 消耗 350 粮食，350 金
    - Foot and Mounted troops created faster (Level 3)
    - Foot and Mounted troops Line-of-Sight increased (Level 3).
    - Units heal faster while garrisoned in buildings (Level 3).

### Lumber Mill

- 加成1
  - Carpentry
    - 消耗 150 粮食，150 铁
    - Lumber Mills increase timber output by 50%
  - Logging Industry
    - 消耗 275 粮食，275 铁
    - Lumber Mills increase timber output by 100%
  - Papermill
    - 消耗 405 粮食，405 铁
    - Lumber Mills increase timber output by 200%
- 加成2
  - Construction
    - 消耗 80 木，80 金
    - Buildings constructed faster (Level 1).
    - Building hit points increased by 10% (Level 1).
  - Architecture
    - 消耗 150 木，150 金
    - Buildings constructed faster (Level 2).
    - Building hit points increased by 20% (Level 2).
  - Engineering
    - 消耗 420 木，420 金
    - Buildings constructed faster (Level 3).
    - Building hit points increased by 30% (Level 3).

### Smelter

- 加成1
  - Metal Alloys
    - 消耗 275 食物，275 木
    - Smelters increase metal output by 100%
  - Cold Casting
    - 消耗 315 食物，315 木
    - Smelters increase metal output by 150%
  - Steel
    - 消耗 405 食物，405 木
    - Smelters increase metal output by 200%
- 加成2
  - Forage
    - 消耗 80 金，80 铁
    - Ships created faster (Level 1)
    - Tanks, siege, and vehicle units created faster (Level 1).
    - Supply Wagons gain increased Radius/Speed/HP (Level 1).
    - Your units in enemy territory receive 25% less attrition damage (and none when not moving or fighting)
  - Supply
    - 消耗 160 金，160 铁
    - Ships created faster (Level 2)
    - Tanks, siege, and vehicle units created faster (Level 2).
    - Supply Wagons gain increased Radius/Speed/HP (Level 2).
    - Your units in enemy territory receive 50% less attrition damage (and none when not moving or fighting)
  - Logistics
    - 消耗 216 金，216 铁
    - Ships created faster (Level 3)
    - Tanks, siege, and vehicle units created faster (Level 3).
    - Supply Wagons gain increased Radius/Speed/HP (Level 3).
    - Your units in enemy territory receive 75% less attrition damage (and none when not moving or fighting)

### Oil Well

### Refinery

- 说明
  - Increases the Oil output of all Oil Wells in your nation by 33%
  - Additional Refineries within your nation have a cumulative "stacking" effect, so two Refineries would increase your Oil output by a net 66%.

### Temple

- 加成1
  - Religion
    - 消耗 56 食物，56 金
    - Temples increase city effect on National Borders by +4
    - Temples increase city hit points by 50%
    - Temples increase city combat range by +2.
  - Monotheism
    - 消耗 150 食物，150 金
    - Temples increase city effect on National Borders by +6
    - Temples increase city hit points by 100%
    - Temples increase city combat range by +3.
  - Existentialism
    - 消耗 300 食物，300 金
    - Temples increase city effect on National Borders by +9
    - Temples increase city hit points by 150%
    - Temples increase city combat range by +4

- 加成2
  - Vassalage
    - 消耗 144 食物，144 木
    - Increases taxation based on percentage of world territory controlled. Taxation rate rises to 100% (Level 2)
    - Increases gather rate of Merchants in friendly territory (and all Fishermen's non-food resources) to 150% (Level 2).
  - Social Contract
    - 消耗 352 食物，352 木
    - Increases taxation based on percentage of world territory controlled. Taxation rate rises to 200% (Level 3)
    - Increases gather rate of Merchants in friendly territory (and all Fishermen's non-food resources) to 200% (Level 3).
  - Income Tax
    - 消耗 480 食物，480 木
    - Increases taxation based on percentage of world territory controlled. Taxation rate rises to 300% (Level 4)
    - Increases gather rate of Merchants in friendly territory (and all Fishermen's non-food resources) to 300% (Level 4).

### University

- 单位1
  - Scholar
    - 消耗 32 金
    - The more Scholars you have in you Universities, the faster you will generate Knowledge
- 加成1
  - Literacy
    - 消耗 200 木
    - Scholars produce +7 knowledge each.
  - Printing Press
    - 消耗 400 木
    - Scholars produce +10 knowledge each.
  - Scientific Method
    - 消耗 660 木
    - Scholars produce +15 knowledge each.
  - Institutional Research
    - 消耗 900 木
    - Scholars produce +20 knowledge each.
  - Supercomputers
    - 消耗 1200 木
    - Scholars produce +25 knowledge each.

### Barracks

- 单位1
  - Riflemen
    - Cost 76 食物，66 木
    - Gunpowder Infantry, Industrial Age - powerful and accurate foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Fusiliers, AT Rifle; Weak vs. Tanks, Machine Guns
  - Infantry
    - 研究 Cost 155 食物，135 木
    - Cost 76 食物，67 木
    - Modern Infantry, Modern Age - fast, powerful, rapid-firing, foot troops accurate even at long range.
    - Strong vs. Bazooka, Anti-Tank Missile; Weak vs. Tanks, Machine Guns
- 单位2
  - Anti-tank Rifle
    - Cost 76 食物，57 铁
    - Heavy Infantry, Industrial Age - slow with a powerful armor-piercing attack at short range.
    - Strong vs. Tanks, Cavalry; Weak vs. Gunpowder Infantry, Machine Guns
  - Bazooka
    - 研究 Cost 155 食物，116 铁
    - Cost 76 食物，57 铁
    - Heavy Infantry, Modern Age - slow with an extremely powerful armor-piercing attack at short range.
    - Strong vs. Tanks; Weak vs. Gunpowder Infantry, Machine Guns
- 单位3
  - Machine Gun
    - Cost 76 金，66 铁
    - Machine Guns, Industrial Age - moves slowly; devastating against enemy foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Infantry; Weak vs. Tanks, Cavalry
  - Heavy Machine Gun
    - 研究 Cost 155 Coin, 135 铁
    - Cost 76 金，67 铁
    - Machine Guns, Modern Age - moves slowly; devastating against enemy foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Infantry; Weak vs. Tanks, Cavalry
- 单位4
  - Flamethrower
    - Cost 76 食物，57 铁
    - Flamethrowers, Industrial Age. Slow-moving and short-ranged; highly effective against buildings and entrenchments.
    - A building attacked by a Flamethrower immediately ejects any garrisoned units.
    - An entrenched unit attacked by a Flamethrower is forced out of its entrenchments.
    - Strong vs. Garrisons, Entrenchments; Weak vs. Infantry, Machine Guns
- 单位5
  - Commando
    - Cost 50 金，50 铁
    - Scouts, Industrial Age - a specialized Scout with many special abilities.
    - Use Sniper ability to destroy enemy units.
    - Use Counterintelligence to destroy enemy Spies and to remove Informers.
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - When Commando units aren't moving or attacking, they normally cannot be seen by most enemy units.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Special Forces
    - 研究 Cost 80 金, 80 铁
    - Cost 50 金，50 铁
    - Scouts, Modern Age - a specialized Scout with many special abilities.
    - Use Sniper ability to destroy enemy units.
    - Use Sabotage ability to damage enemy buildings.
    - Use Counterintelligence to destroy enemy Spies and to remove Informers.
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - All anti-aircraft emplacements are automatically jammed within range of Special Forces
    - When Special Forces units aren't moving or attacking, they normally cannot be seen by most enemy units.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry

### Auto Plant

- 单位1
  - Armored Car
    - Cost 85 粮食，38 石油
    - Ranged Cavalry, Industrial Age - fast, lightly armored vehicles that can fire while moving.
    - Strong vs. Machine Guns, Flamethrowers; Weak vs. Tanks.
  - Armored Scout Car
    - 研究 Cost 174 食物，77 石油
    - Cost 86 食物，38 石油
    - Ranged Cavalry, Modern Age - lightly armored vehicles that can fire while moving.
    - Strong vs. Machine Guns, Flamethrowers; Weak vs. Tanks
- 单位2
  - Light Tank
    - Cost 76 铁，57 石油
    - Tanks, Industrial Age - relatively slow but armored and extremely powerful; difficult to destroy except with heavy weapons.
    - Strong vs. Modern Infantry, Machine Guns; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Tank
    - 研究 Cost 155 铁，116 石油
    - Cost 76 铁，57 石油
    - Tanks, Modern Age - armored and extremely powerful; difficult to destroy except with heavy weapons.
    - Strong vs. Modern Infantry, Machine Guns; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry

### Factory

- 单位1
  - Siege Mortar
    - 消耗 73 木，73 铁
    - Inca Unique Artillery Weapons, Industrial Age - expensive and slow-moving; particularly effective at long range against enemy buildings and foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Buildings; Weak vs. Armored Cars, Tanks
  - Howitzer
    - 研究 Cost 147 铁，147 石油
    - Cost 76 铁，76 石油
    - Artillery Weapons, Modern Age - fast moving, firing powerful explosive shells at very long range against enemy buildings and foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Infantry; Weak vs. Armored Cars, Tanks.
- 单位2
  - Anti-Aircraft Gun
    - 消耗 58 食物，58 金
    - Anti-Aircraft, Industrial Age - a slow and inaccurate defense against early aircraft.
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Tanks, Infantry
  - Anti-Aircraft Battery
    - 消耗 117 食物，117 金
    - Cost 61 食物，61 金
    - Anti-Aircraft, Modern Age - a vehicle-mounted defense against enemy aircraft.
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Tanks, Infantry
- 单位5
  - Supply Wagon
    - Cost 64 食物，64 木
    - Prevent most attribution damage to your troops within their radius
    - Allow your siege/artillery units to fire faster even in enemy territory.

### Airbase

- 单位1
  - Biplane
    - 消耗 85 金，85 石油
    - Fighter Aircraft, Industrial Age - useful for scouting, strafing enemy ground troops, and shooting down enemy planes.
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Fighters, Anti-Aircraft
  - Fighter
    - 研究消耗 174 金，174 石油
    - 消耗 86 金，86 石油
    - Fighter Aircraft, Modern Age - powerful against enemy aircraft and useful for strafing enemy ground troops.
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Cruisers, Anti-Aircraft
- 单位2
  - Bomber
    - 消耗 107 金，107 石油
    - Bomber Aircraft, Modern Age - powerful against enemy cities and buildings; somewhat inaccurate.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Fighters, Anti-Aircraft
- 单位3
  - Helicopter
    - 消耗 88 金，88 石油
    - Helicopters, Modern Age - versatile aircraft that can hover in place. Useful for rading and for hunting Submarines and Tanks.
    - Strong vs. Tanks, Artrillery, Subs; Weak vs. Fighters, Anti-Aircraft

### Shipyard

- 单位1
  - Dreadnought
    - 消耗 133 铁，85 石油
    - Heavy Bombardment Ships, Industrial Age - powerful, armored, naval vessels useful for both naval supremacy and shore bombardment.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Buildings; Weak vs. Submarines, Aircraft
  - Battleship
    - 研究消耗 271 铁，174 石油
    - Heavy Bombardment Ships, Mordern Age - powerful, armored, naval vessels useful for both naval supremacy and shore bombardment.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Buildings; Weak vs. Submarines, Aircraft
- 单位2
  - Destroyer
    - 消耗 66 铁，66 石油
    - Light Ships, Industrial Age - swift, moderately armed, and able to detect and destroy enemy Submarines as well as Transports.
    - Strong vs. Submarines, Aircraft; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
  - Cruiser
    - 研究消耗 135 铁，135 石油
    - Light Ships, Modern Age - swift and able to detect and destory enemy Submarines and Transports; also armed with powerful Anti-Aircraft weapons.
    - Strong vs. Submarines, Aircraft; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
- 单位3
  - Aircraft Carrier
    - 消耗 637 金，637 石油
    - Aircraft Carriers, Modern Age - Can carry a wing of seven Fighter-Bomber aircraft, which can perform air missions.
    - Land-based aircraft cannot be based on Carriers, and vice-versa.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships, Ground Targets; Weak vs. Subs, Cruisers, Anti-Aircraft
- 单位4
  - Submarine
    - 消耗 76 金，57 石油
    - Submarines, Industrial Age - difficult to detect except by Destroyers and Cruisers.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships, Transports; Weak vs. Light Ships, Helicopters
- 单位5
  - Fishermen
    - Cost 40 木
    - Can gather resources from Fish and Whale sites.
    - To fish, move near a Fish/Whale resource site in the sea

### Missile Silo

- 单位1
  - Nuclear Missile
    - 研究消耗 970 知识，1164 石油
    - Nuclear Missiles, Modern Age - weapons of mass destruction capable of flattening several enemy buildings; there are political and economic consequences to using them.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Units that run away fast
- 单位2
  - V2 Rocket
    - 消耗 98 知识，98 石油
    - Conventional Missiles, Industrial Age - useful against enemy buildings and cities; somewhat inaccurate.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Wonders

### Stockade -> Bunker

- 加成1
  - Partisan
    - 消耗 600 粮食，600 铁
    - Upgraded Minuteman armed with rifles.
    - When Partisans are not moving or attacking they can't normally be seen by most enemies.
    - Citizens can become Partisans using their To Arms! button.
    - Partisan research also increases the hit points and Line-of-Sight of ordinary Citizens.
    - Partisan research also increases Tower range and Line-of-Sight.
    - Strong vs. Armored Cars; Weak vs. Tanks, Machine Guns
- 加成2
  - Allegiance
    - 消耗 64 金，64 铁
    - Attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 1).
  - Oath of Fealty
    - 消耗 90 金，90 铁
    - Increased attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 2)

### Fortress -> Redoubt

- 说明
  - 消耗 100 金，300 铁
  - Protects an area by attacking enemy units
  - Influences National Borders
  - Creates Spies and Generals
  - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops
  - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal
- 单位1
  - General
    - 消耗 80 金，80 铁
    - Increases the armor of all your troops nearby by +2 (increases further per level General is upgraded).
    - Can Force March their armies to increase their move speeds.
    - Can Entrench foot troops to increase their defense.
    - Can hide units to prepare an Ambush or sneak attack.
    - Can Create Decoy units that look and behave like real units to your enemies, but cause no damage when they attack.
- 单位2
  - Spy
    - 消耗 50 金，50 铁
    - Can Bribe enemy combat units to join your nation.
    - Can plant Informers to gain information on enemy buildings and units
    - Can use Counterintelligence to destroy enemy Spies and to remove Informers.
- 加成1
  - Fortification
    - 消耗 108 金，108 铁
    - Increases effect of Forts on National Borders to +4.
    - +1 Range for Forts.
    - +5 Garrison Capacity for Forts and Towers.
    - +2 Line-of-Sight for Forts.
  - Bombardment
    - 消耗 240 金，240 铁
    - Increases effect of Forts on National Borders to +6.
    - +2 Range for Forts.
    - +5 Garrison Capacity for Forts and Towers.
    - +4 Line-of-Sight for Forts.
  - Strategic Reserves
    - 消耗 432 金，432 铁
    - Increases effect of Forts on National Borders to +9.
    - +3 Range for Forts.
    - +5 Garrison Capacity for Forts and Towers.
    - +6 Line-of-Sight for Forts.
- 加成2
  - Tactics
    - 消耗 45 食物，45 金
    - Generals and Spies are created twice as quickly
    - Generals have increased Radius/HP/Speed/LOS and increased effect on unit armor (Level 1).
    - Spies have increased Range/HP/Speed/LOS (Level 1).
  - Operations
    - 消耗 150 食物，150 金
    - Generals and Spies are created twice as quickly
    - Generals have increased Radius/HP/Speed/LOS and increased effect on unit armor (Level 2).
    - Spies have increased Range/HP/Speed/LOS (Level 2).
  - Strategy
    - 消耗 360 食物，360 金
    - Generals and Spies are 50% cheaper
    - Spies can bribe enemy units and plant informers twice as quickly.
    - Generals have increased Radius/HP/Speed/LOS and increased effect on unit armor (Level 3).
    - Spies have increased Range/HP/Speed/LOS (Level 3).

### Air Defense Gun -> Radar Air Defense

## 现代 ~ 信息

### 图书馆 Library

- Military
  - Military Intelligence
  - Psychological Warfare
  - Radar and Sonar
  - Guided Munitions
  - Partisan Warfare
  - Combined Operations
  - Selective Service
- Civic
  - Populism
  - Internal Revenue
  - Budget Management
  - Universal Suffrage
  - New Deal
  - United Nations
  - International Law
- Commerce
  - Private Enterprise
  - Media
  - Monetary Reserves
  - Advertising
  - Precision Craftmanship
  - Television
  - Globalization
- Science
  - Statistics
  - Acoustics
  - Relativity
  - Microbiology
  - Antibiotics
  - Meteorology
  - Computerization

### Missile Silo

- 单位1
  - Nuclear Missile
    - 消耗 480 知识，576 石油
    - Nuclear Missiles, Modern Age - weapons of mass destruction capable of flattening several enemy buildings; there are political and economic consequences to using them.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Units that run away fast
  - Nuclear ICBM
    - 研究消耗 2250 知识，2700 石油
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Units that run away fast
- 单位2
  - V2 Rocket
    - 消耗 96 知识，96 石油
    - Conventional Missiles, Industrial Age - useful against enemy buildings and cities; somewhat inaccurate.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Wonders
  - Cruise Missile
    - 研究消耗 200 知识，200 石油
    - Conventional Missiles, Modern Age - useful against enemy buildings, cities, and ships
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Wonders

## 信息 ~ 信息

### 图书馆 Library

- Military
  - Military-Industrial Complex
  - Counter-Insurgency Warfare
  - Universal Military Service
  - Unified Armed Services
  - Precision Weapons
  - Electronic Warfare
  - Homeland Security
  - Missile Shield
    - Cost 4400 知识，3300 铁
    - Enemy missiles will not explode in your territory
    - Armageddon clock turned back by 2
- Civic
  - Civil Rights
  - Urban Renewal
  - Government Ethics
  - Public Opinion
  - Bipartisanship
  - Conservation
  - New World Order
  - World Government
    - Cost 3300 食物，4400 知识
    - All timer victories, city assimilations, and enemy capital eliminations instantaneous
- Commerce
  - Super-Highways
  - Fiscal Regulation
  - Satellite Communication
  - Recycling
  - Free Trade
  - Internet
  - Wireless Technology
  - Global Prosperity
    - Cost 3300 金，4400 知识
    - Raises your Commerce Cap to the maximum allowed, and increases resource production by 25%
    - Stealth Bombers and Advanced Fighter available.
- Science
  - Nuclear Physics
  - Genetics
  - Quantum Mechanics
  - Microchips
  - Astrophysics
  - Laser Technology
  - Fiber Optics
  - Artificial Intelligence
    - Cost 3300 木，4400 知识
    - Units are produced instantly.

### Barracks

- 单位1
  - Assault Infantry
    - Cost 78 粮食，68 木
    - Modern Infantry, Information Age - fast, powerful, rapid-firing foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Bazooka, Anti-Tank Missile; Weak vs. Tanks, Machine Guns
- 单位2
  - Anti-Tank Missile
    - Cost 78 粮食，58 铁
    - Heavy Infantry, Information Age - slow with a powerful and accurate long-range armor-piercing attack.
    - Strong vs. Tanks; Weak vs. Gunpowder Infantry, Machine Guns
- 单位3
  - Advanced Machine Gun
    - Cost 78 金，68 铁
    - Machine Guns, Information Age - moves slowly; devastating against enemy foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Infantry; Weak vs. Tanks, Cavalry
- 单位4
  - Flamethrower
    - Cost 78 食物，58 铁
    - Flamethrowers, Industrial Age. Slow-moving and short-ranged; highly effective against buildings and entrenchments.
    - A building attacked by a Flamethrower immediately ejects any garrisoned units.
    - An entrenched unit attacked by a Flamethrower is forced out of its entrenchments.
    - Strong vs. Garrisons, Entrenchments; Weak vs. Infantry, Machine Guns
- 单位5
  - Elite Special Forces
    - Cost 50 金，50 铁
    - Scouts, Information Age - a specialized Scout with many special abilities.
    - Use Sniper ability to destroy enemy units.
    - Use Sabotage ability to damage enemy buildings.
    - Use Counterintelligence to destroy enemy Spies and to remove Informers.
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - All anti-aircraft emplacements are automatically jammed within range of Elite Special Forces
    - When Elite Special Forces units aren't moving or attacking, they normally cannot be seen by most enemy units.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry

### Auto Plant

- 单位1
  - Armored Cavalry
    - Cost 74 粮食，33 石油
    - Ranged Cavalry, Information Age - fast, moderately armored vehicles that can fire while moving
    - Strong vs. Machine Guns, Flamethrowers; Weak vs. Tanks.
- 单位2
  - Main Battle Tank
    - Cost 66 铁，49 石油
    - Tanks, Information Age - heavily armored and extremely powerful; difficult to destroy except with heavy weapons.
    - Strong vs. Modern Infantry, Machine Guns; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry

### Factory

- 单位1
  - Rocket Artillery
    - Cost 98 铁，98 石油
    - Artillery Weapons, Information Age - fast moving, firing powerful explosive rockets at very long range against enemy buildings and foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Infantry; Weak vs. Armored Cars, Tanks
- 单位2
  - Anti-Aircraft Missile
    - Cost 78 粮食，78 金
    - Anti-Aircraft, Information Age - a powerful, accurate defense against enemy aircraft.
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Tanks, Infantry
- 单位5
  - Supply Wagon
    - Cost 80 食物，80 木
    - Prevent most attribution damage to your troops within their radius
    - Allow your siege/artillery units to fire faster even in enemy territory.

### Airbase

- 单位1
  - Jet Fighter
    - Cost 88 金，88 石油
    - Fighter Aircraft，Information Age - powerful against enemy aircraft and useful for strafing enemy ground troops
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Cruisers, Anti-Aircraft
  - Advanced Fighter
    - 研究 Cost 334 金，334 石油
    - Fighter Aircraft, Information Age - powerful against enemy aircraft and useful for strafing enemy ground troops.
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Cruisers, Anti-Aircraft
- 单位2
  - Strategic Bomber
    - Cost 106 金，106 石油
    - Bomber Aircraft, Information Age - extremely powerful against enemy cities and buildings; fast and relatively accurate.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Fighters, Anti-Aircraft
  - Stealth Bomber
    - 研究 Cost 409 金，409 石油
    - Bomber Aircraft, Information Age - devastating against enemy cities and buildings; very fast and highly accurate. Cannot be targeted by ground-based defenses.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Ships; Weak vs. Fighters
- 单位3
  - Attack Helicopter
    - Cost 87 金，87 石油
    - Helicopters, Information Age - versatile aircraft that can hover in place. Useful for raiding and for hunting Submarines and Tanks.
    - Strong vs. Tanks, Artillery, Subs; Weak vs. Fighters, Anti-Aircraft

### Shipyard

- 单位1
  - Advanced Battleship
    - Cost 134 铁，86 石油
    - Heavy Bombardment Ships, information Age - extremely powerful armored naval vessels useful for both naval supremacy and shore bombardment.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Buildings; Weak vs. Submarines, Aircraft
- 单位2
  - Missile Cruiser
    - Cost 67 铁，67 石油
    - Light Ships, Information Age - swift and able to detect and destroy enemy submarines and transports; also armed with powerful anti-aircraft weapons.
    - Strong vs. Submarines, Aircraft; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
- 单位3
  - Aircraft Carrier
    - 消耗 624 金，624 石油
    - Aircraft Carriers, Modern Age - Can carry a wing of seven Fighter-Bomber aircraft, which can perform air missions.
    - Land-based aircraft cannot be based on Carriers, and vice-versa.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships, Ground Targets; Weak vs. Subs, Cruisers, Anti-Aircraft
- 单位4
  - Attack Submarine
    - 消耗 76 金，57 石油
    - Submarines, Information Age - difficult to detect except by Destroyers and Cruisers.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships, Transports; Weak vs. Light Ships, Helicopters
- 单位5
  - Fishermen
    - Cost 40 木
    - Can gather resources from Fish and Whale sites.
    - To fish, move near a Fish/Whale resource site in the sea

### SAM Installation

### Bunker

- 加成2
  - Patriotism
    - Cost 270 金，270 铁
    - Increased attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 3)
  - Nationalism
    - Cost 495 金，495 铁
    - Increased attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 4)

## 全时代

### 图书馆

- Age
  - Classical Age (II)
    - Cost 250 粮食
    - New Resources: Knowledge, Metal
    - Age advances represent your nation's progress through history; they make new units and buildings available. Advancing to the Classical Age makes new resources available (Knowledge and Metal). It also allows you to build a Senate for government powders, Forts for defense, and Stables and Siege Factories to create powerful new kinds of units.
  - Medieval Age (III)
    - Cost 275 粮食，275 知识
    - Age advances represent your nation's progress through history; they make new units and buildings available. Advancing to the Medieval Age allows you to arm your troops with more powerful weapons. It also allows you to build Supply Wagons to support your troops and Spies to subvert your enemies.
  - Gunpowder Age (IV)
    - Cost 600 粮食，600 知识
    - Age advances represent your nation's progress through history; they make new units and buildings available. Advancing to the Gunpowder Age makes powerful gunpowder units available.
  - Enlightment Age (V)
    - Cost 650 粮食，1300 知识
    - Age advances represent your nation's progress through history; they make new units and buildings available. Advancing to the Enlightenment Age makes powerful new musket and cannon units available.
  - Industrial Age (VI)
    - Cost 1050 粮食，2100 知识
    - New Resources: Oil
    - Age advances represent your nation's progress through history; they make new units and buildings available. Advancing to the Industrial Age gives you Access to a new resource (Oil) and makes Tanks and Aircraft available for the first time.
  - Modern Age (VII)
    - Cost 3750 知识，1500 石油
    - Age advances represent your nation's progress through history; they make new units and buildings available. Advancing to the Modern Age gives you access to powerful modern units and buildings, including the ability to research nuclear weapons.
  - Information Age (VIII)
    - Cost 6000 知识，2400 石油
    - Age advances represent your nation's progress through history; they make new units and buildings available. Advancing to the Information Age brings you to the pinnacle of information technology -- the game's most powerful units and buildings at last become available.
- Military
  - 兵法 The Art of War
    - (成本: 120 单位的粮食) (Cost: 120 Food)
    - New Buildings: Barracks, Stable (x), Tower (x = Also requires other research)
    - Military research increases your Population Limit. Most military units and buildings require military research. It also decreases unit and unit upgrade costs.
  - Mercenaries
    - Cost 110 粮食，137 木
    - New Buildings: Siege Factory (x), Upgrade to Keep (x), Fort (x), Upgrade to Castle (x), Airbase (x), Missile Silo (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Standing Army
    - Cost 288 粮食，300 木
    - New Research: Tactics at the Fort (x), Fortification at the Fort (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Conscription
    - Cost 702 粮食，406 木
    - New Buildings: Upgrade to Stockade (x), Upgrade to Fortress (x) (x = Also requires other research)
    - New Research: Operations at the Fort (x), Bombardment at the Fort (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Levee en Masse
    - Cost 1365 粮食，700 木
  - Nation-in-Arms
    - Cost 2925 粮食，937 木
    - New Buildings: Upgrade to Bunker (x), Upgrade to Redoubt (x) (x = Also requires other research)
    - New Research: Strategy at the Fort (x), Strategic Reserves at the Fort (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Selective Service
    - Cost 4320 粮食，2400 木
- Civic
  - City State
    - Cost 120 粮食
    - New Research: Taxation at the Temple, Allegiance at the Tower (x) (x = Also requires other research).
    - Civic research increases the number of Cities you are allowed to build and expands your National Borders.
  - Empire
    - Cost 176 粮食
    - New Research: Religion at the Temple, Oath of Fealty at the Tower (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Feudalism
    - Cost 480 粮食
    - New Research: Vassalage at the Temple (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Divine Right
    - Cost 975 粮食
    - New Research: Monotheism at the Temple (x), Patriotism at the Tower (x) (x = Also requires other research).
  - Constitution
    - Cost 1750 粮食
    - New Research: Social Contract at the Temple (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Great Power
    - Cost 3450 粮食
    - New Research: Existentialism at the Temple (x), Income Tax at the Temple (x), Nationalism at the Tower (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - International Law
    - Cost 6000 粮食
- Commerce
  - Barter
    - Cost 60 粮食，60 木
    - New Buildings: Dock, Market.
    - Commerce research increases your Commerce Limit, which controls your Efficiency -- the maximum rate at which you are allowed to gather any resource. It also increases your Caravan Limit, the maximum number of trade routes you can have.
  - Coinage
    - Cost 231 粮食，66 木
    - Can buy and sell resources at the Market
    - Can colonize new continents.
  - Trade
    - Cost 468 粮食，120 木
    - Caravans to allied & peaceful nations allowed
  - Mercantilism
    - Cost 975 粮食，195 木
  - Finance
    - Cost 1890 粮食，350 木
  - Assembly Line
    - Cost 2925 粮食，750 木
  - Globalization
    - Cost 4320 粮食，1920 木
- Science
  - Written Word
    - Cost 120 木，50 金
    - Units can be transported by sea.
    - New Buildings: Temple.
    - Science research decreases your Research Cost for all technology. It also allows your Scouts, Cities, and Lookouts to see farther, and increases the bonus for exploring Ruins. Most economic upgrades require Science research.
  - Mathematics
    - Cost 132 粮食，132 金
    - New Buildings: Granary (x), Lumber Mill (x) (x = Also requires other research)
    - New Research: Construction at the Lumber Mill (x), Herbal Lore at the Granary (x), Forage at the Smelter (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Chemistry
    - Cost 288 粮食，240 金
    - New Buildings: Smelter (x) (x = Also requires other research)
    - New Research: Architecture at the Lumber Mill (x), Medicine at the Granary (x), Carpentry at the Lumber Mill, Agriculture at the Granary, Literacy at the University (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Laws of Nature
    - Cost 585 粮食，390 金
    - New Research: Supply at the Smelter (x), Logging Industry at the Lumber Mill (x), Crop Rotation at the Granary (x), Printing Press at the University (x), Metal Alloys at the Smelter (x = Also requires other research)
  - Electricity
    - Cost 1050 粮食，700 金
    - New Research: Engineering at the Lumber Mill (x), Pharmaceuticals at the Granary (x), Cold Casting at the Smelter (x) (x = Also requires other research).
  - Electronics
    - Cost 2025 粮食，1350 金
    - Entire map becomes explored.
    - New Buildings: Refinery (x) (x = Also requires other research)
    - New Research: Logistics at the Smelter (x), Papermill at the Lumber Mill (x), Food Industry at the Granary (x), Institutional Research at the University (x), Steel at the Smelter (x) (x = Also requires other research)
  - Computerization
    - Cost 3600 粮食, 2400 金
    - All units and buildings in your territory revealed
    - New Research: Supercomputers at the University (x) (x = Also requires other research)

### Senate (II)

- 说明
  - (Requires: II Classical Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 50 Timber, 50 Wealth)
  - If built at any other city besides your capital, changes that city to your new capital.
  - Senates allow you to research systems of government.
  - Select between totalitarian and democratic governmental systems to gain different benefits.

### Market (I)

### Temple (I)

- 加成1
  - Religion
    - (Requires: 2 Civic at the Library)
    - (Cost: 77 Food, 77 Wealth)
    - Temples increase city effect on National Borders by +4
    - Temples increase city hit points by 50%
    - Temples increase city combat range by +2.
  - 
- 加成2
  - Taxation
    - Cost: 88 Food, 88 Timber
    - Allows taxation based on percentage of world territory controlled. Taxation rate becomes 50% (Level 1).
    - Increases gather rate of Merchants in friendly territory (and all Fishermen's non-food resources) to 120% (Level 1).

### University (II)

- 说明
  - (Requires: Classical Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 60 Timber, 30 Wealth)
  - Creates Scholars who gather Knowledge.
  - The more Scholars studying here, the faster you accumulate Knowledge.
  - Knowledge can then be spent on research at a Library.

### Farm (I)

### Granary (II)

- 说明
  - (Requires: 2 Science, II Classical Age at the library)
  - (Cost: 60 Timber, 40 Wealth)
  - Increases the Food output of all Farms in the same City by 20%

### Woodcutter‘s Camp (I)

### Lumber Mill (II)

- 说明
  - (Requires: 2 Science, II Classical Age at the library)
  - (Cost: 60 Food, 40 Metal)
  - Increases the Timber output of all Woodcutter's Camps in the same City by 20%.

### Mine (II)

- 说明
  - (Requires: II Classical Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 50 Timber)
  - Build Mines near mountains and cliffs to gather Metal
  - The more Citizens working at a Mine, the fater you accumulate Metal.

### Smelter (II)

- 说明
  - (Requires: 3 Science, II Classical Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 70 Timber, 50 Wealth)
  - Increases the Metal output of all Mines in the same City by 50%

### Oil Well (VI)

- 说明
  - (Requires: VI Industrial Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 100 Timber, 50 Metal)
  - One Citizen per Oil Well can gather Oil.
  - Must be placed where Oil is visible on the map.
  - Can be placed either on land or sea.

### Refinery (VI)

- 说明
  - (Requires: 6 Science, VI Industrial Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 100 Timber, 50 Metal)
  - Increases the Oil output of all Oil Wells in your nation by 33%.
  - Additional Refineries within your nation have a cumulative "stacking" effect, so two Refineries would increase your Oil output by a net 66%.

### Barrack (I)

- 说明
  - (Cost: 145 Timber)
  - Creates foot soldiers to attack your enemies.
- 单位1
  - Slingers
    - Cost 40 粮食，40 木
    - Light Infantry, Ancient Age - fast, cheap, and short-ranged.
    - Strong vs. Foot Archers; Weak vs. Cavalry
  - Inti Clubmen
    - 研究消耗 80 粮食，80 木（需要古典时代）
    - 消耗 40 粮食，40 木
    - Inca Unique Light Infantry, Classical Age - fast, cheap melee troops effective against enemy mounted troops.
    - Strong vs. Foot Archers; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Inti Macemen
    - (Requires: III Medieval Age, 2 Military at the Library)
    - 研究消耗 80 粮食，80 木
    - (Cost: 40 Food, 40 Timber)
    - Inca Unique Light Infantry, Medieval Age - fast, cheap melee troops effective against enemy mounted troops.
    - Strong vs. Foot Archers; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Arquebusiers
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 140 Food, 120 Timber)
    - (Cost: 70 Food, 60 Timber)
    - Gunpowder Infantry, Gunpowder Age IV - powerful in quantity but somewhat slow-firing
    - Strong vs. Pikeman, Archers; Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Tanks
  - Musketeers
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 140 Food, 120 Timber)
    - Gunpowder Infantry, Enlightenment Age V - powerful in quantity but somewhat slow-firing
    - Strong vs. Pikeman, Archers; Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Tanks
  - Riflemen
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age, 5 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 160 Food, 140 Timber)
    - Gunpowder Infantry, Industrial Age VI - powerful and accurate foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Fusiliers, AT Rifle; Weak vs. Tanks, Machine Guns
  - Infantry
    - 研究 Cost 155 食物，135 木
    - Cost 76 食物，67 木
    - Modern Infantry, Modern Age - fast, powerful, rapid-firing, foot troops accurate even at long range.
    - Strong vs. Bazooka, Anti-Tank Missile; Weak vs. Tanks, Machine Guns
- 单位2
  - Hoplites
    - Cost 50 粮食，37 木
    - Heavy Infantry, Ancient Age - powerful, slow melee units
    - Strong vs. Cavalry; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Phalanx
    - 研究消耗 100 粮食，60 铁（需要古典时代）
    - 消耗 50 粮食，30 铁
    - Heavy Infantry, Classical Age - powerful, slow, melee units
    - Strong vs. Cavalry; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Pikemen
    - (Requires: Medieval Age, 2 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 100 Food, 60 Metal)
    - (Cost: 50 Food, 30 Metal)
    - Heavy Infantry, Medieval Age - powerful, slow, melee units.
    - Strong vs. Cavalry; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Elite Pikemen
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Food, 100 Metal)
    - Heavy Infantry, Gunpowder Age IV - powerful, slow, melee units.
    - Strong vs. Cavalry; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Fusiliers
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Food, 100 Metal)
    - (Cost: 60 Food, 50 Metal)
    - Heavy Infantry, Enlightenment Age V - slow, powerful short-ranged gunpowder units useful for close-in defense.
    - Strong vs. Cavalry; Weak vs. Gunpowder Infantry, Machine Guns
  - Anti-tank Rifle
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age, 5 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 160 Food, 120 Metal)
    - Heavy Infantry, Industrial Age - slow with a powerful armor-piercing attack at short range.
    - Strong vs. Tanks, Cavalry; Weak vs. Gunpowder Infantry, Machine Guns
  - Bazooka
    - 研究 Cost 155 食物，116 铁
    - Cost 76 食物，57 铁
    - Heavy Infantry, Modern Age - slow with an extremely powerful armor-piercing attack at short range.
    - Strong vs. Tanks; Weak vs. Gunpowder Infantry, Machine Guns
- 单位3
  - Bowman
    - Cost 40 木，50 金
    - Foot Archers, Classical Age - medium-ranged foot infantry with little armor.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Light Infantry
  - Archers
    - 研究 Cost 80 木，100 金（需要古典时代）
    - Cost 40 木，50 金
    - Foot Archers, Classical Age - medium-ranged foot infantry with little armor.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Light Infantry
  - Heavy Archers
    - (Requires: Medieval Age, 2 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 80 Timber, 100 Wealth)
    - (Cost: 40 Timber, 50 Wealth)
    - Foot Archers, Medieval III and Gunpowder Age IV - medium-ranged foot infantry with little armor.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Light Infantry
- 单位4
  - Flamethrower
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age, 5 Military at the Library)
    - (Cost: 80 食物，60 铁)
    - Flamethrowers, Industrial Age VI. Slow-moving and short-ranged; highly effective against buildings and entrenchments.
    - A building attacked by a Flamethrower immediately ejects any garrisoned units.
    - An entrenched unit attacked by a Flamethrower is forced out of its entrenchments.
    - Strong vs. Garrisons, Entrenchments; Weak vs. Infantry, Machine Guns
- 单位5
  - Scout
    - 消耗 62 木、50 金
    - Scouts, Ancient Age - fast, but unarmed; good for exploring the map and finding enemies.
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - Can also destroy enemy Spies.
    - Strong vs. Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Explorer
    - (Requires: Medieval Age at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 80 Wealth, 80 Metal)
    - (Cost: 50 Wealth, 50 Metal)
    - Scouts, Medieval Age - fast, but unarmed.
    - Use Counterintelligence to destroy enemy Spies and to remove Informers.
    - When Explorers aren't moving they can't normally be seen by most enemy units
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - Strong vs. Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Commando
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age at the Library)
    - (Cost: 80 金，80 铁)
    - Scouts, Industrial Age VI - a specialized Scout with many special abilities.
    - Use Sniper ability to destroy enemy units.
    - Use Counterintelligence to destroy enemy Spies and to remove Informers.
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - When Commando units aren't moving or attacking, they normally cannot be seen by most enemy units.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry
  - Special Forces
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age at the Library)
    - 研究 Cost 80 金, 80 铁
    - Cost 50 金，50 铁
    - Scouts, Modern Age - a specialized Scout with many special abilities.
    - Use Sniper ability to destroy enemy units.
    - Use Sabotage ability to damage enemy buildings.
    - Use Counterintelligence to destroy enemy Spies and to remove Informers.
    - Can spot hidden enemy units, such as Spies and Commandos.
    - All anti-aircraft emplacements are automatically jammed within range of Special Forces
    - When Special Forces units aren't moving or attacking, they normally cannot be seen by most enemy units.
    - Strong vs. Buildings, Spies; Weak vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry

### Stable (II) -> Auto Plant (VI)

- 说明
  - (Requires: II Classical Age at the Library）
  - (Cost: 120 Timber)
  - Creates mounted soldiers to attack your enemies.
- 单位1
  - Light Horse
    - (Cost: 60 Food, 40 Timber)
    - Light Cavalry, Classical Age - extremely fast and lightly armed melee troops; useful for catching enemy raiders.
    - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Light Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry, Buildings
  - Light Cavalry
    - (Requires: III Medieval Age, 2 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Food, 80 Timber)
    - (Cost: 60 Food, 40 Timber)
    - Light Cavalry, Medieval Age III - extremely fast and lightly armed melee troops; useful for catching enemy raiders.
    - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Light Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry, Buildings
  - Elite Light Cavalry
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Food, 80 Timber)
    - (Cost: 60 Food, 40 Timber)
    - Light Cavalry, Gunpowder Age IV - extremely fast and lightly armed melee troops; useful for catching enemy raiders.
    - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Light Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry, Buildings
  - Hussar
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Food, 80 Timber)
    - (Cost: 60 Food, 40 Timber)
    - Light Cavalry, Enlightenment Age V - extremely fast and lightly armed melee troops; useful for catching enemy raiders.
    - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Light Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry, Buildings
  - Armored Car
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age, 5 Military at the Library)
    - search (Cost: 180 Food, 80 Oil)
    - Cost 85 粮食，38 石油
    - Ranged Cavalry, Industrial Age - fast, lightly armored vehicles that can fire while moving.
    - Strong vs. Machine Guns, Flamethrowers; Weak vs. Tanks.
  - Armored Scout Car
    - 研究 Cost 174 食物，77 石油
    - Cost 86 食物，38 石油
    - Ranged Cavalry, Modern Age - lightly armored vehicles that can fire while moving.
    - Strong vs. Machine Guns, Flamethrowers; Weak vs. Tanks
- 单位2
  - Cataphract
    - (Requires: 2 Military at the Library)
    - (Cost: 50 Wealth, 60 Metal)
    - Heavy Cavalry, Classical Age - powerful, armored, shock melee units useful against formations of ranged foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Knight
    - (Requires: III Medieval Age at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 100 Wealth, 120 Metal)
    - (Cost: 50 Wealth, 60 Metal)
    - Heavy Cavalry, Medieval Age - powerful, armored, shock melee units useful against formations of ranged foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Heavy Knight
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Wealth, 140 Metal)
    - (Cost: 60 Wealth, 70 Metal)
    - Heavy Cavalry, Gunpowder Age IV - powerful, armored, shock melee units useful against formations of ranged foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Cuirassier
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Wealth, 140 Metal)
    - (Cost: 60 Wealth, 70 Metal)
    - Heavy Cavalry, Enlightenment Age V - powerful, armored, shock melee units useful against unprotected Musketeers and other ranged foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Archers, Gunpowder Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Light Tank
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age, 5 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 160 Metal, 120 Oil)
    - Cost 76 铁，57 石油
    - Tanks, Industrial Age - relatively slow but armored and extremely powerful; difficult to destroy except with heavy weapons.
    - Strong vs. Modern Infantry, Machine Guns; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
  - Tank
    - 研究 Cost 155 铁，116 石油
    - Cost 76 铁，57 石油
    - Tanks, Modern Age - armored and extremely powerful; difficult to destroy except with heavy weapons.
    - Strong vs. Modern Infantry, Machine Guns; Weak vs. Heavy Infantry
- 单位3
  - Horse Archer
    - (Requires: 2 Military at the Library)
    - (Cost: 60 Timber, 40 Wealth)
    - Ranged Cavalry, Classical Age - fast raiders able to fire even while moving.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Civilians; Weak vs. Light Cavalry, Archers
  - Heavy Horse Archer
    - (Requires: III Medieval Age at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Timber, 80 Wealth)
    - (Cost: 60 Timber, 40 Wealth)
    - Ranged Cavalry, Medieval Age - fast raiders able to fire even while moving.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Civilians; Weak vs. Light Cavalry, Archers
  - Dragoon
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Timber, 80 Wealth)
    - (Cost: 60 Timber, 40 Wealth)
    - Ranged Cavalry, Gunpowder Age IV - fast gunpowder-armed raiders able to fire even while moving.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Civilians; Weak vs. Light Cavalry, Archers
  - Carabineer
    - (Requires: V Enlightment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Timber, 80 Wealth)
    - (Cost: 60 Timber, 40 Wealth)
    - Ranged Cavalry, Enlightenment Age V - fast, gunpowder-armed raiders able to fire even while moving.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Infantry, Civilians; Weak vs. Light Cavalry, Archers

### Siege Factory (II) -> Factory (VI)

- 说明
  - (Requires: 2 Military, II Classical Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 60 Timber, 60 Metal)
  - Creates Siege units to attack enemy buildings.
  - Creates Supply Wagons to support your armies.
- 单位1
  - Catapult
    - (Cost: 66 Timber, 66 Metal)
    - Artillery Weapons, Classical Age - expensive and slow-moving, but effective at long range against enemy buildings.
    - Strong vs. Buildings; Weak vs. Cavalry
  - Trebuchet
    - (Requires: III Medieval Age at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 105 Timber, 105 Metal)
    - (Cost: 70 Timber, 70 Metal)
    - Artillery Weapons, Medieval Age III - expensive and slow-moving, but effective at long range against enemy buildings.
    - Strong vs. Buildings; Weak vs. Cavalry
  - Bombard
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 160 Timber, 160 Metal)
    - (Cost: 80 Timber, 80 Metal)
    - Artillery Weapons, Gunpowder Age IV - expensive and slow-moving, but effective at long range against enemy buildings and foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Buildings; Weak vs. Cavalry
  - Mortar
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 160 Timber, 160 Metal)
    - Inca Unique Artillery Weapons, Enlightenment Age V - expensive and slow-moving; particularly effective at long range against enemy buildings and foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Buildings; Weak vs. Cavalry
  - Siege Mortar
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age, 5 Military at the Library)
    - research 消耗 200 木，200 铁
    - Inca Unique Artillery Weapons, Industrial Age VI - expensive and slow-moving; particularly effective at long range against enemy buildings and foot troops.
    - Strong vs. Buildings; Weak vs. Armored Cars, Tanks
- 单位2
  - Anti-Aircraft Gun
    - (Requires: VI Industrial Age, 5 Military at the Library)
    - 研究消耗 80 食物，80 金
    - Anti-Aircraft, Industrial Age VI - a slow and inaccurate defense against early aircraft.
    - Strong vs. Aircraft; Weak vs. Tanks, Infantry
- 单位5
  - Supply Wagon
    - (Requires III Medieval Age at the Library)
    - (Cost: 80 Food, 80 Timber)
    - Prevent most attrition damage to your troops within their radius.
    - Allow your siege/artillery units to fire faster even in enemy territory.

### Airbase (VI)

- 说明
  - (Requires: 2 Military, VI Industrial Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 80 Wealth, 70 Oil)
  - Creates aircraft from Biplanes and Fighters to Attack Helicopters and Strategic Bombers.

### Missile Silo (VII)

- 说明
  - (Requires: 2 Military, Modern Age at the Library)
  - (Cost: 80 Wealth, 70 Oil)
  - Creates and launches missile units.
  - Researches new types of missiles, including Nuclear Missiles and ICBM's.
  - Can only hold one missile at a time.

### Dock (I) -> Anchorage (IV) -> Shipyard (VI)

- 说明
  - (Cost: 100 Timber)
  - Creates fishing ships and military naval ships.
  - Garrison ships here to repair and protect them.
- 单位1
  - Trireme
    - Cost 90 木
    - Heavy Ships, Ancient Age - slow but powerful; useful for massing naval power.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Bombardment Ships; Weak vs. Fireships, Submarines
  - Galley
    - 研究 Cost 80 木，80 铁（需要古典时代）
    - (Cost: 40 Timber, 40 Metal)
    - Heavy Ships, Classical Age - slow but powerful; useful for massing naval power.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Bombardment Ships; Weak vs. Fireships, Submarines
  - Carrack
    - (Requires: Medieval Age, 2 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 80 Timber, 80 Metal)
    - (Cost: 40 Timber, 40 Metal)
    - Heavy Ships, Medieval Age - slow but powerful; useful for massing naval power.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Bombardment Ships; Weak vs. Fireships, Submarines
  - Frigate
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Timber, 120 Metal)
    - (Cost: 60 Timber, 60 Metal)
    - Heavy Ships, Gunpowder Age - armed with cannons; useful for massing naval power.  Limited range curtails their value for shore bombardment.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Bombardment Ships; Weak vs. Fireships, Submarines
  - Man o' War
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 120 Timber, 120 Metal)
    - Heavy Ships, Enlightenment Age V - powerful cannon-armed warships; more than a match for any other wooden ship.
    - Strong vs. Light Ships, Bombardment Ships; Weak vs. Fireships, Submarines
- 单位2
  - Bark
    - Cost 30 粮食，30 木
    - Light Ships, Ancient Age - fast and lightly armed; useful for scouting and intercepting enemy Transports.
    - Strong vs. Fireships, Transports; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
  - Dromon
    - 研究 Cost 60 粮食，60 木（需要古典时代）
    - (Cost: 30 Food, 30 Timber)
    - Light Ships, Classical Age - fast and lightly armed; useful for scouting and intercepting enemy Transports.
    - Strong vs. Fireships, Transports; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
  - Caravel
    - (Requires: Medieval Age, 2 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 60 Food, 60 Timber)
    - (Cost: 30 Food, 30 Timber)
    - Light Ships, Medieval III - fast and lightly armed; useful for scouting and intercepting enemy Transports.
    - Strong vs. Fireships, Transports; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
  - Corvette
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 60 Food, 60 Timber)
    - (Cost: 30 Food, 30 Timber)
    - Light Ships, Gunpowder Age IV - swift and armed with light cannon; excellent for scouting and intercepting enemy Transports.
    - Strong vs. Fireships, Transports; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
  - Sloop
    - (Requires: Enlightenment Age V, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 60 Food, 60 Timber)
    - Light Ships, Enlightenment Age V - swift and armed with light cannon; excellent for scouting and intercepting enemy Transports.
    - Strong vs. Fireships, Transports; Weak vs. Heavy Ships
- 单位3
  - Bomb Vessel
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - (Cost: 80 Timber, 92 Metal)
    - Bombardment Ships, Gunpowder Age IV - slow-moving vessel armed with long-range mortars useful for bombing enemy coastal positions.
    - Strong vs. Building; Weak vs. Ships
  - Bomb Ketch
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 160 Timber, 160 Metal)
    - Bombardment Ships, Enlightenment Age V - slow-moving vessel armed with improved mortars useful for bombing enemy coastal positions.
    - Strong vs. Building; Weak vs. Ships
- 单位4
  - Fire Raft
    - Cost 20 木，40 金（需要古典时代）
    - Fire Ships, Classical Age - explode on contact with an enemy warship, with devastating results.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships; Weak vs. Light Ships
  - Heavy Fire Raft
    - (Requires: Medieval Age, 2 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 40 Timber, 80 Wealth)
    - (Cost: 20 Timber, 40 Wealth)
    - Fire Ships, Medieval Age III - explode on contact with an enemy warship, with devastating results.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships; Weak vs. Light Ships
  - Fireship
    - (Requires: IV Gunpowder Age, 3 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 60 Timber, 120 Wealth)
    - (Cost: 30 Timber, 60 Wealth)
    - Fire Ships, Gunpowder Age IV - explode on contact with an enemy warship, with devastating results.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships; Weak vs. Light Ships
  - Heavy Fireship
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - research (Cost: 60 Timber, 120 Wealth)
    - Fire Ships, Enlightenment Age V - explode on contact with an enemy warship, with devastating results.
    - Strong vs. Heavy Ships; Weak vs. Light Ships
- 单位5
  - Fishermen
    - Cost 40 木
    - Can gather resources from Fish and Whale sites.
    - To fish, move near a Fish/Whale resource site in the sea.

### Lookout (I) -> Observation Post (IV) -> Air Defense Gun (VI)

- 升级
  - Observation Post
    - Automatic Upgrade to Observation Post (Automatic with: IV Gunpowder Age at the Library)
    - Defenseless, but can see a long way.
    - Detects hidden enemy units nearby.
    - Limited ability to shoot arrows at enemy aircraft passing nearby.
  - Air Defense Gun
    - Automatic Upgrade to Air Defense Gun (Automatic with: VI Industrial Age at the Library)
    - Fires at enemy aircraft.
    - Detects hidden enemy units nearby.

### Tower (I) -> Keep (III) -> Stockade (V) -> Bunker (VII)

- 加成1
  - Militia
    - (Requires: II Classical Age at the Library)
    - (Cost: 80 Food, 80 Metal)
    - Citizens who have taken up weapons.
    - Once the Militia unit is researched, Citizens gain a "To Arms!" button, which allows them to become fighting Militia units.
    - Militia research also increases the hit points and Line-of-Sight of ordinary Citizens.
    - Militia research also increases Tower range and Line-of-Sight.
    - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Light Infantry; Weak vs. Heavy Cavalry, Heavy Infantry
  - Minuteman
    - (Requires: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - (Cost: 300 Food, 300 Metal)
    - Upgraded Militia armed with muskets.
    - Citizens can become Minutemen using their To Arms! button.
    - Minutemen research also increases the hit points and Line-of-Sight of ordinary Citizens.
    - Minutemen research also increases Tower range and Line-of-Sight.
    - Strong vs. Ranged Cavalry, Weak vs. Gunpowder Infantry, Cavalry
  - Partisan
    - (Requires: VII Modern Age, 6 Military at the Library)
    - (Cost: 600 Food, 600 Metal)
    - Upgraded Minuteman armed with rifles.
    - When Partisans are not moving or attacking they can't normally be seen by most enemies.
    - Citizens can become Partisans using their To Arms! button.
    - Partisan research also increases the hit points and Line-of-Sight of ordinary Citizens.
    - Partisan research also increases Tower range and Line-of-Sight.
    - Strong vs. Armored Cars; Weak vs. Tanks, Machine Guns
- 加成2
  - Allegiance
    - (Requires: II Classical Age)
    - (Cost: 88 Wealth, 88 Metal)
    - Attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 1)
  - Oath of Fealty
    - (Cost: 165 Wealth, 165 Wealth)
    - Increased attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 2)
  - Patriotism
    - (Requires: 4 Civic at the Library, V Enlightenment Age)
    - (Cost: 390 Wealth, 390 Metal)
    - Increased attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 3)
  - Nationalism
    - (Requires: 6 Civic at the Library, VII Modern Age)
    - (Cost: 585 Wealth, 585 Metal)
    - Increased attrition damage to enemies in your territory (Level 4)
- 升级
  - Keep
    - Automatic Upgrade to Keep (Automatic with: III Medieval Age, 2 Military at the library)
    - Small, cheap fortification.
    - Automatically attacks enemies.
    - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
    - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal.
  - Stockade
    - Automatic Upgrade to Stockade (Automatic with: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - Small, cheap fortification.
    - Automatically attacks enemies.
    - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
    - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal
  - Bunker
    - Automatic Upgrade to Bunker (Automatic with: VII Modern Age, 6 Military at the Library)
    - Small, cheap fortification.
    - Automatically attack enemies.
    - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
    - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal.

### Fort (II) -> Castle (III) -> Fortress (V) -> Redoubt (VII)

- 说明
  - (Requires: II Classical Age, 2 Military at the Library)
  - (Cost: 100 Wealth, 300 Metal)
  - Protects an area by attacking enemy units.
  - Influences National Borders.
  - Creates Spies and Generals.
  - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
  - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal.
- 升级
  - Fortress
    - Automatic Upgrade to Fortress (Automatic with: V Enlightenment Age, 4 Military at the Library)
    - Protects an area by attacking enemy units.
    - Influences National Borders.
    - Creates Spies and Generals.
    - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
    - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal.
  - Redoubt
    - Automatic Upgrade to Redoubt (Automatic with: VII Modern Age, 6 Military at the Library)
    - Protects an area by attacking enemy units.
    - Influences National Borders.
    - Creates Spies and Generals.
    - Can be garrisoned with friendly troops.
    - Units garrisoned inside will slowly heal.

